for generations we dreamed about a place
to live and work in space a place where
life up there would benefit life down
here today that dream has come true
research on the International Space
Station improves lives all over the
world the station's benefits for
Humanity grow every day and they can be
told by the lives that have been changed
is that - you say - I found a big lump
in the side of my face and I kept going
to doctor after doctor and I was in so
much pain at that time I was like dying
in bed it hurts so bad I've never been
in so much pain I went for my first MRI
and then it showed up with like hundreds
of tumors all over and then they sent me
- not dr. Sutherland but someone who
works in his office and he thought it
was nearby bro mitosis which I had we
didn't even realize what that was we'd
always heard it called the Elephant Man
disease there's different types of
neurofibromatosis one of them the tumors
grow on the outside of your skin the
other one of the tumors grow on the
inside and her his girl on the inside
a long time ago when we were thinking
about this we approached MacDonald
Dettwiler associates it's a company that
happens to be located in Canada that
built robots for space they built what
Canadians called Canada and then they
constructed the special purpose dextrous
manipulator for the international space
station and the idea was if they could
build such complex robots perhaps in
collaboration with medicine we could
build a robot that could operate inside
an MRI machine we did not realize that
it was built on the same material as the
space arm and we're quite amazed that if
that's what he had made it out of
but it's the multi dexterity of the
robot and that that robot could have
performed tasks that made us become
increasingly confident that we could
overcome the challenges related to
building a robot that could operate
inside an MRI machine with the precision
the accuracy and the dexterity of a
neurosurgeon it just so happened that
the first individual was a young woman
and the young woman harbored a fairly
complex tumor underneath the front part
of her brain a machine like neuron can
manipulate tools at an accuracy of 50
microns that is overwhelmingly superior
to what the best surgeon might be able
to do I think it's fabulous to me it's
actually mind boggling that someone can
take that material and put it in
to a life-saving device that can help
millions of people
I honestly think that right now I'd be
bedridden I would not be able to get out
of bed I feel good see not for my
doctors
my parents would be taking care of my
kid right now
I guess like I'm glad that it hopefully
helped people who have my disease and I
hope that it helps people who need
surgery in the future if they're ever
propositioned with a chance in the
future to have something done like this
I hope they take it
you